
I regard the word "type of pedagogy" in the question(i) as traditional, progressive, or the other types. On that range, the type of pedagogy Mr.Keeting uses in the movie is progressive pedagogy. And I partly disagree that it is the best pedagogy for the students.The base of this argument is "Understanding Media"(McLuhan, 1964).

Marshall McLuhan(1964) gives to Media new degree "Hot & Cold", defined with "high or low definition" and "low or high involvement". Definition means how much full of information it is. Involvement, with strong relationships with definition, is how the receiver should fill in or add information, which is interpretation or read-between-lines process. Therefore, coolness of media is represented by brace room of meaning receiver can make completion.

McLuhan's major example of hot media is prose. It constructs logical or chronological order, with the solid structure full of concrete information, filling blank room to interpret.

On the other hand, verse is cool media with high involvement because of few words selected thoughtfully. In the movie, for example, if the students was given "O Captain My Captain" in the style of prose with detailed explanation, they might have received it like a usual lecture in the normal class. In this way, poetry is major cool media which provides high involvement.

Involvement performed by cool media might have strong connection with interaction between teacher and students. In other words, this "involvement" connected to "interaction with environments(surroundings)". Dewy(1928 "Experience and education") says, experience shouwld be consist of interactions between objective condition and internal condition. Therefore, tranquility using poetry with high involvement in it, provides more learning based on experience. In other words, verses withdraws students own desire(direction) to learn freely by making high interaction, which provides chance with "educational" experience. So I think, in this movie, progressive pedagogy was used.

However, cool media have one problem, which can be called "Coolness Barrier". Cool media like poem needs completion by the receivers, which means receivers are required ability of completion. Therefore, cool media create a sort of class, those who can interpret cool one and those who can't.

In this movie, some students finally stood on their desks, and some didn't. This separation is representation of "Coolness Barrier". In this point, the Keeting's method of tranquility uses too much cool media to bring his message to every student.
